---
layout: post
title: Through a Glass Darkly
type: news
---

Investigating the meaning part of the linguistic sign is incredibly complex. It
is extremely fuzzy, and we have no direct means to observe what a word actually
means. There are, of course, ways, how one can investigate how the meaning of
words changes over time, but it remains very difficult to model the exact
processes. When Swadesh introduced lexicostatistics, he also introduced a way
to investigate lexical change by fixing (controling) the meaning part of the
linguistic sign and looking at words from an onomasiological perspective which
asks, which words we use to denote a concept, rather than asking what concepts
words can denote. This perspective can be very fruitful in many respects.
However, whenever I look at Swadesh lists from different languages, I have this
feeling of looking at a big house with many illuminated windows. I can see
movement in the windows, and people appearing and disappearing, but from
looking at the house, I will never really know what is going on inside.  One
could say that lexicostatistics is just old stuff from the 1950s and there is
no need to care about it anymore, but the lexicostatistic perspective on the
lexicon of human languages lives on in our modern phylogenetic approaches, and
I am often asking myself whether it is really enough to look at lexical
evolution through the window of some 200 meanings, or whether there is
something more we can do.  I discuss this question in more detail in a new
blogpost I wrote for David Morrison's blog [The Genealogical World of
Phylogenetic Networks](http://phylonetworks.blogspot.fr/) and which you may
find
[here](http://phylonetworks.blogspot.de/2016/02/through-glass-darkly.html).
