---
layout: post
title: Mini-Workshop on Poetry 
type: news
---

On Thursday, last week, we had a mini-workshop on poetry for which we invited
colleagues from the Max Planck Institute for Empirical Aesthetics (MPI-AE) and
from the University of Zurich (UZH). It may look strange on first sight why
poetry would matter for my work, but the poetic
tradition of rhyming in the history of Chinese in fact plays a crucial role for
the reconstruction of the oldest stages of the languages. I myself devoted two
recent studies to the application of network approaches to study Old Chinese
phonology which are currently in the final phase of editing and will hopefully
appear soon (the draft for one study can be found
[here](http://lingulist.de/papers.html)). In my talk, I presented this research
quickly (the slides are
[here](http://lingulist.de/documents/talks/list-2017-poetic-function.html)),
and pointed to future questions on the dynamics underlying the development of
poetic traditions from a cross-linguistic and historical perspective.

The other speakers discussed many interesting topics, ranging from empirical
studies on poetry and how one can annotate the important factors that
constitute poetic speech (Winfried Menninghaus and Christine Knoop, MPI-AE),
via the automatic detection of rhyme patterns in German poetry (Thomas Haider
MPI-AE), up to tquestions of language contact and cultural exchange (Paul
Widmer, UZH), and the co-evolution of linguistic and poetic forms (Cormac
Anderson, MPI-SHH). Our discussions during the talks were long, and since we
had to stop at some point, there was no time for the talk by Olivier Morin
(MPI-SHH) on "poetry as super-week communication". This was a definit loss, as
I saw when Olivier shared his slides afterwards, but luckily we are working in
the same department, and nothing will prevent us to go on with discussions and
exchange of ideas. 

We all decided to stay in close contact and keep each other informed on future
ideas as well as concrete research, and it is quite likely that at some point
in the not-so-far future, I will present more of this here.
